This file is part of Filu (C) 2007, 2010, 2011, 2012 loh.tar@googlemail.com


Index
=======
1- Introdution
2- First Steps
3- The Filu Programs
4- Further Readings


1- Introdution
================
OK, if you has follow all installation instructions, you have done so many steps
but didn't see any chart. Don't give up, you are so close to success.

Let's short ask what's should work: The database server is up and running, the
programs compiled, installed and short started in a terminal without an error
message? Great!

Then go on reading, and have fun!


2- First Steps
================
Let me route you to three short tours *without* to explain each command. Well,
one command should I anyway notice: With 'sum' you create a test "DB", more
exactly a test schema inside the Filu database, where you can play. To remove
these schema later use 'exo'.


Tour 1 - For The Very Impatient
---------------------------------
Execute these commands in your terminal...
  agentf sum tour1
  agentf imp doc/example-some-us-stocks.imp
  agentf full
  performerf

...and you can start to fiddle around.


Tour 2 - For The Impatient Terminal Hater
-------------------------------------------
My respect that you nonetheless managed so far ;-)

  - Execute once more in your terminal: agentf sum tour2
  - Start from your application menu below 'Office' ManagerF
  - Click 'AddFi' page
  - Select at the upper left 'Filu' and 'Market'
  - Enter 'nyse' in the middle search field and click 'Search'
  - Click the result and click some right below 'Add to DB'
  - Change at upper left to 'Yahoo' and 'Fi'
  - Enter 'dji' -> 'Search'
  - Click 'Dow Jones Industrial Average' (with ISIN US2605661048)
  - Click 'Search Comp' a little bit lower/left from 'Add to DB'
  - Clink into the name field and add '30' that it looks '~trial Average 30'
  - Click 'Add to DB'
  - Click 'Add all to DB' at top right and confirm with 'OK'
  - Start from your application menu below 'Office' PerformerF
  - Click at the LaunchPad 'Full'

And you can also start to fiddle around.


Tour 3 - For The Inquisitive For Knowledge
--------------------------------------------
I assume you went *not* thru tour 1 or 2.

Per default there are nearly absolutely no data in the database. Therefore you
have to import all that stuff *you* need, markets, currencies, stocks and so on.

The goal is that you could use ManagerF to import all stuff easily live from
somewhere of the Internet. But that need still some work, especially at the
provider scripts.

Even though some already work with ManagerF, we like now import data with
'agentf imp' command.
Let us do some less commands to bring up the chart of Apple Inc.
  agentf sum tour3
  agentf imp doc/example-apple.imp
  agentf full
  performerf

Go to the 'Search FI' at the left and click 'Apple Inc.'. Nice?

What have we done? 'cat doc/example-apple.imp' shows the content of the import
file. As you can see there are only two Header and two data lines included, the
rest is comment which explain what kind of data we have imported. The second
command 'agentf full' forces an update of all eodBars of all FIs stored in the
database. We have three FIs in the database. 'Three?' Yes! Of cause 'Apple Inc.'
as stock but also 'US Dollar' as currency and one more dummy
currency 'No Currency'.

But because we have only one provider symbol installed there will only be
eodBars for one FI downloaded. This point is important to understand.

The dummy currency and the dummy market 'NoMarket' that you can see at
ManagerF's 'FI Details' page are needed. The reason is a little complicated.
Symbols are used to download price (or other) data by a market with a provider
script. Therefore a symbol *must* always have a market. But a market *must*
always have a currency. However what is with symbols you want to store to a FI
as extra reference but not to download data? Such universal symbols with no
special purpose need anyway a market and these market a currency.

A symbol has a type, or owner. Well known types are ISIN or Reuters which is
often seen in TV broad castings or old-school newspaper tables. When a symbol
here at Filu is used to download data by a script it is called 'provider
symbol'. So, when you read somewhere here 'Provider' in context with 'Symbol' it
does mean 'symbol type'. There is no coercion that this symbol is really used to
download anything.

As consequence of that naming convention is 'Reuters' a symbol type but not a
provider because we have no Reuters-Script to download anything from Reuters.
Currently we have less than a handful provider usable at Filu. Yahoo, oander
(currently broken, sorry) and Filu. 'Filu?'. Um...yes, there are some simple
shell scripts they are usable at ManagerF's 'AddFi-Page'. These data come not
out of the database or from the internet but rather out of some *.csv files
located at the Filu install directory.

The most important things you do know now. In the doc directory you find more
information about the Filu parts but not a typical user manual. Because of that
I want make some notes at this place. I hope that all Filu programs are
self-explanatory. But some things may hidden or be known to be improved.


3- The Filu Programs
======================
All programs take on the command line the switch
'--config key=value [key=value]..', where as 'key' a config file key is. That
mean you could overwrite any config setting on the command line, see
doc/config-file.txt. To be on the save side only append these as last parameter,
e.g.

  agentf full 2001-01-01 --config MaxClones=10 Verbose=Max


AgentF
========
He is like the Swiss knife of Filu. He starts multiple instances to do a big job
e.g. at 'full' to download quotes in parallel. The amount of instances is
configurable in the settings file by MaxClones=X, see doc/config-file.txt.

In general AgentF takes always only options with double hyphens '--' with the
one and only exception of '-h'. The call looks like:

  agentf <Command> [<ParmList>] [<SubCommand> [<ParmList>]]..
         [OptList] [-h|--help]

The command and subcommand can also given with double hyphens and you can
give 'help' as command, like:

    agentf help [<Command>]
    agentf -h [<Command>]
    agentf --help [<Command>]
    agentf -h add broker
    agentf add broker MyBank USD "5.95 + OV * 0.001"
    agentf --add --broker MyBank USD "5.95 + OV * 0.001"


All commands have more or less build in help text. So ckeck it out.


ManagerF
==========
Is one of the oldest part of Filu and is far away from his projected features.

FI Details Page
-----------------
IS the oldest part of Filu and is nearly useless.

Add FI Page
-------------
Choose a provider and a function (script) at the upper left ComboBoxes and enter
your search string in the middle. Hit Return or click 'Search' to fetch the data
from the provider. The results will are listed in the center table. Clicking one
row will copy the FI into the below area.

you can also enter by hand the FI data into the fields, without using a previous
search. Click 'Add to DB' right from the Type ComboBox to store this one FI. you
can also add more symbols to existing FIs by filling the new symbol data and
give an already known symbol in the RefSymbol field, Name and Type could leave
blank in that case.

When the selected FI is an Index appears a 'Search Comp' button right from the
Symbol lines which will fetch the components of that Index from the provider
which is the owner of the symbol. The results will listed in the table, or
nothing if the provider has no component data to that Index or an error message
appears if the the provider has no function to fetch components.

NOTE: Watch the 'Found:' counter at the top while fetching Index components.
      Say fetching 'NASDAQ Composite, ^IXIC' from Yahoo will populate the table
with many more FIs as you may like. Hit 'Cancel', the 'Search' Button at the top
has changed the caption, to stop the script.

When the table is filled with all components could you add or remove lines with
the '+/-' Buttons at the upper right or edit the line itself by double click.
Clicking 'Add all to DB' will...you guess it. Furthermore will all FIs added as
underlying to the Index-FI. you can hit that button also to add all results from
a normal search, its your decision if it make sense. Adding underlines will not
perform in that case.

NOTE: The 'underline-adding' works not perfect right now. Currently he may say
      'OK' but there wasn't, because the FI may fail to add. But that's more an
issue of Importer than of ManagerF.

Indicator Page
----------------
The editor needs many improvements but is usable. To save a file click the icon
left from the combobox or Ctrl-S. To delete the right button or Ctrl-Del. To
create a new file just simple enter a new name in the combobox.

On the right you have the TA-Lib picker. I can't remember what I want do with
the Include button, ignore him :-)

Select one of the TA-Lib functions and click below one of the lines begin with
CallX: or IncludeX:. Hit then the Add button to copy that kind of use into
the editor. See also doc/indicator-file-format.txt.

The plot sheets watch the used indicator. So when you have saved an indicator
file will it immediately updated on the plot sheet.

Log Book
----------
Here find you some messages which may produce the other pages. Currently write
only 'Add Fi' some messages, and not the very best.

On the second tab 'LogFile' could you view the messages written by all programs.
In the future may more messages logged there. RightClick to clear the file,


PerformerF
============
Not only the chart painting tool of Filu.

Indicator Look
----------------
With the RightMouseBtn comes up a menu where you can adjust the count of
indicator screens and toggle scale and grid painting on/off.
Press/Click the MiddleMouseBtn displays temporary a percent scale, but only when
the Y-Scale is not disabled.

Scroll the Chart
------------------
Is possible by drag them with the mouse. Hold down the Ctrl-Key to scroll in
'turbo mode'.

Change the Density
--------------------
Is possible by mouse wheel.

Groups
--------
Create new groups with the green button. Double click a group to step in, click
the up-arrow to leave the group. Use drag&drop from the search widget or from
other groups to add FIs to groups. Drag FIs or groups out to remove them.

Chart Objects
---------------
Clicking one button from the menu right of the X-Button activates the chart
object add mode. Click somewhere on the chart to add the chosen chart object.
Changing and moving are almost as usual apart from that, that you do not have to
hold down the left button while moving. Play around and you will see. Right
click brings up the property editor. Pressing Del removes a selected CO. To
leave the add mode click the X-Button.
Available chart object types are currently only 'Line'.

IndiSetPad
------------
Let you quickly switch between sets of indicators. The buttons are stored in
~/Filu/ButtonPads/PerformerIndiSetPad.ini. you can edit, add and remove buttons
of the IndiSetPad by Right-Click with the mouse and move around the buttons by
Ctrl-LeftMouseBtn. The settings of the IndicatorSets itself are stored in
~/Filu/IndicatorSets. The name of the button is used for the IndicatorSet-Name.
Deletion of a button will not delete the IndicatorSet but add a button with a
new name will create such set. Each set stores also individual view settings.
The ComboBox list all existing sets and shows which set is actual used.

LaunchPad Configuration
-------------------------
The LaunchPad can start any application you want with some parameter related to
the current viewing FI. For details see doc/launchpad-file-format.txt. you can
edit, add and remove buttons of the LaunchPad by Right-Click with the mouse and
move around the buttons by Ctrl-LeftMouseBtn.

Zoom View
-----------
This is a single and a little simplified indicator screen. The idea is to have a
small window which give an overview with a longer time frame. The widget uses an
indicator settings file 'ZoomWidget' in ~/Filu/IndicatorSets. To use an
indicator of your choice append a 'Indicator=yourChoice' line or select in the
ComboBox of the IndiSetPad 'ZoomWidget', select a different indicator and
restart PerformerF.


InspectorF
============
Is the young and sketchy back tester of Filu with automated substitute of rule
and indicator parameters. Each constant is changeable. Edit the constants in the
Strategy-Tab encapsulated in braces {} in two ways:

  {10;12;14}  each of the value is used. No limit of values.
  {10-20 i 2} from 10 to 20 in steps of 2 is used.

Click on the Testing-Tab and you see only the edited constants still in braces
and the progress bar on the bottom shows how many calculations will done when
you click the 'Run Serial Test'-Button.

While the test is running you could change the tabs to look at the results.
Select one result at any tab and click the detail tab to see what exactly was
done.

The results will never deleted. There will be a hash number calculated for each
rule/indicator combination and the high score views take care of that.

The column names means:
  wltp, Won Long Trade Percentage
  lltp, Lost Long Trade Percentage
  agwlp, Average Gain of Won Long Trade Percentage
  alltp, Average Lost of Long Trade Percentage
  tpp, Total Performance Percentage
  score, Score

Score is actual calculated as:
  ln(exp(won long trades * agwlp)/exp(lost long trades * alltp)) / total count
of trades

All these trading analyses are very experimental. Suggestions for improvements
are welcome.

See also doc/trading-rule-file-format.txt.


4- Further Readings
=====================
Filu has start as FiMi in 2007 by me and Christian Kindler. He had some great
ideas which he has noted in fimi_digest_EN.odp and FiMi_0.1.6_DE.doc. There is
described how the data are organized by Filu. But because Filu has dropped some
goals from the original FiMi project there be some things outdated.

To become an import file from your own data you do may have 'lie around' take a
look at doc/Master-of-imp-files.ods and doc/import-file-format.txt.

Data provider are the main thing for a finance software like Filu. Data by Yahoo
are sadly not the very best. In defense should be said that other free sides
like Google sometimes the same wrong data delivers. To write your own provider
script look at doc/hacking-provider-scripts.txt.

There are more doc/hacking-foo.txt available if you like, and I hope you do, to
improve Filu.
